Aechmea fasciata "primera" Bromeliad
Urn Plant
Silver Vase Plant

4 to 5 years to mature to bloom
Epiphytic - Grow on other plants

Description

The Silver Vase plant looks similar to other bromeliads, espeically it's more common cousin, Guzmania, with the exception of the leaf texture: the leaves have a dusty, scaley surface in horizontal stripes which helps the bromeliad bring in water through its leaves. The inflorescence, or flower-like middle, is a pretty light to hot pink color and lasts for months. When the actual flowers bloom, they are a bright violet color and are more short-lived.

The plant is very top heavy and when I bought one, the leaves had damage from falling over so many times. They do much better in more sturdy or heavy containers. This plant is also quite hardy, as I managed to not kill the mother plant with niglect and am now growing its pups.

Origin:
South Eastern Brazil
Grows either in trees or the ground.

Size
    Up to about 18 inches tall and 26 inches wide
Temperature:
    65-75°F

Toxicity
    Non-toxic to cats and dogs
    stomach upset if eaten
    skin irritation and/or allergies if touched

Sunlight:
    Bright, indirect light. East and West facing window sills or near South facing windows as long as it doesn't get direct sun. The leaves will scorch in hot direct sunlight.

Water:
    Keep urn filled with water. Drain and rinse out urn once or twice a month.
    Potting medium can be watered once the top feels dry, but keeping the urn plant's feet wet can lead to root rot.
    Mist its leaves if air is dry, especially in summer.

Fertilizer:
    // Only fertilize roots -- Never the urn ?
    Use bromeliad or orchid fertilizer.
    Dilute the fertilizer if you fertilize more than twice a year.
    Fertilzing can be done anytime except winter months when the plant is 'resting'.

Soil
Orchid soil can be used. The soil should drain very well.
Regular potting soil mixed with pearlite and bark is also good.

Other care and maintenence:

Bromeliads are often quite top heavy and so are not well suited to light-weight
containers.

Repot once or twice while immature.
Since bromeliads are epiphytic, their roots do not draw in much water and are
only used to anchor the plant inplace on a tree or in the ground. Because of this,
bromeliads will not become pot bound once they are mature but can benefit from
replacing the soil every other year.

Propagation-
While the a bromeliad is blooming or afterwards, it produces little clones of
itself called 'pups'.  The 'mother' plant will never bloom again and will
eventually wither and die. Once the pups have reached about 5 inches tall or
look like they could survive by themsleves, they can be cut away from the mother
plant. Take care while cutting though to minimize damage to the pup and the
motherplant if you plan on keeping the latter any longer.
Removing the pups from the mother plant is purely optional though.

Issues, trouble shooting:
If the plant is kept outside or the urn is not rinsed out periodically, bugs or fungus/bacteria can grow in the stagnent water.
The roots can rot if the potting medium is kept too wet.

Yellow, dried out spots on random spots on the leaves could mean that the plant has gotten scorched from too direct light.
If the ends of the leaves are yellow and dried out looking, the plant probably needs more water.

Sources and further reading:
https://www.houseplantsexpert.com/urn-plant.html
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aechmea_fasciata